
Reviewers' comments:

Reviewer #1: The article claims to be a review of linear algebraic analysis applied to the advection equation; such an article may be categorized as type (iv) by the Journal's aim and scope statement (a survey article that bridges Geosciences and Mathematics).
Based on the abstract, introduction, and conclusion, the reader expects a general presentation of transport algorithms and their properties with, presumably, a reliance on the transport equation's linearity to make these methods amenable to tools provided by linear algebra.  However, the article does not achieve its stated goals and has several major flaws, enumerated below. 

1. For a survey or review article --- even one that claims (page 1, line 45) to be more concerned with first principles than recent work --- the list of references is woefully incomplete, especially for a subject as general and widely applicable as numerical transport.

2. Mass conservation is only mentioned near the end of the paper, on page 12, and there only under severe assumptions of incompressible flow and a regular discretization, neither of which are necessary.
Mass conservation is a fundamental property of the equation itself (and its boundary conditions).  It is independent of the the discretization scheme, and holds even in divergent flow.

R. Mass conservation is easy to enforce: simply renormalize the vector at any point in the simulation. The particular form is used because it is simple and it allows one to prove important results that are useful in other contexts. The result in 134, for instance, was demonstrated numerically in Mills (2019). Also: I show quite clearly how to modify the assumption for both non-equal-area grids and for divergent flows.

3. Key properties of numerical algorithms for transport, e.g., monotonicity, are not addressed; their potential nonlinearity also goes unmentioned.
4. Given the article's focus on linearity, the severe constraints implied by Godunov's theorem need to be mentioned.
5. The discussion of numerical stability is insufficient, contradictory, and possibly incorrect.
    (a) In the first paragraph of Section 8, the sentence, ``Assuming we've obeyed the CFL criterion ... von Neumann analysis shows this method to be unconditionally stable," is a contradiction.   In an unconditionally stable scheme, the CFL criterion is satisfied independently of the time step; it need not be obeyed.
    (b) The claim of unconditional stability that begins Section 8 refers to equation (46), which is only semi-discrete --- one cannot claim stability for a PDE solver without defining the time stepping method.

R. The sentence in (a) refers to a centered finite-difference method.
R. (b) Time-stepping is immaterial because it is already accounted for in the solution described in Section 5.1.
R. The wording of both has been improved.

    (c) Furthermore, equation (46) uses a centered finite difference spatial discretization, a discretization which is well-known to be unconditionally *unstable* when combined with certain time stepping methods (R. J. LeVeque, 2007, Finite Difference Methods for Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations, Chapter 10).

R. The centred finite-difference method is only presented as an example because it is easy to convert to a matrix.

    (d) The author addresses instability concerns with the application of numerical diffusion, but does not discuss the implications of this technique to the underlying physical model. Indeed, this technique often introduces too much dissipation, degrading the accuracy of the method so much that it is not used in practice for hyperbolic problems like the advection equation. Other techniques for increasing numerical stability, e.g., upwinding, hyperdiffusion, implicit diffusion via limiters, mass matrix lumping, etc., are not mentioned.

R. Again, this is presented only as an example. Diffusion for a matrix-based advection scheme will, again, be different and is treated in detail in Section 9.1. The point is that diffusion must be present _in some form_, otherwise simulation of any realistic transport scenario will overflow.

6. The article uses a finite difference discretization as its only concrete example of a linear advection method. Finite volume and finite element methods, both hugely significant and relevant to the article's stated purpose, are neglected.
For example, finite difference methods have nicely banded matrices that are useful for analysis and regular grids, but they are less useful for problems that require variable resolution, while finite element methods tend to have sparse matrices even on unstructured grids. Such analysis, while well within the purported scope of the article, is not included.

R. Again, finite difference is only presented as an EXAMPLE because it is easy to relate to the method under discussion. Any other method will be just as amenable to the same treatment so long as it can be converted to a set of linear equations.
R. Improved wording. Maybe I should choose my words more carefully.

7. One of the article's main points advocates the use of evolution operators to represent advection as a sequence of linear operators, each advancing the solution one time step.  This is indeed a powerful technique. It is a fundamental tool employed in (LeVeque, 2007) to quantify numerical error in ODE solvers. An example specifically related to numerical advection is provided by Morton et al, 1988; Stability of the Lagrange-Galerkin method with non-exact integration, RAIRO 22:4, 625--653.  They show that for their scheme, the matrix representation of the evolution operator is bounded independently of the time step, implying unconditional stability.  The current work merely introduces the concept; it does not show how it can be applied to general schemes.

R. I'm not sure I understand. The solution method is used in almost every part of the paper to prove multiple properties of the solutions, both general and under different constraints.

8. Throughout the article several significant properties are simply assumed, without justification.
    (a) The analysis of Section 7.1 (page 10) relies on the assumption of incompressible flow without mentioning under what physical approximations this assumption is relevant, and what it excludes.

R. Many real flows can be approximated as incompressible. This assumption is used _all_the_time_ and if you disallow it, you'd probably have to remove at least half of all the literature on fluid mechanics.

    (b) In Section 7.2 (page 11) it is assumed that the matrix R, which represents an advection scheme's discrete evolution operator, preserves the length of a vector under matrix-vector multiplication.

R. No! In Section 7.1 I state, "all the Lyapunov exponents will sum to zero..." while in Section 7.2 I state, "all the Lyapunov exponents will either be zero or negative..." Clearly, these two statements contradict one another. Lets read the intro. to Section 7 again: "In many cases of the problems discussed in Section 3 and Section 4, the evolution matrix, A, will have special properties that will affect the solution." 


The following issues, while less significant, are also problematic.
1. Page 1, lines 35--38.  The entire first paragraph serves no purpose other than to advertise the author's previous work.  It mentions a specific transport scheme that happens to be based on matrix analysis, but this purports to be a general review article.  Furthermore, it does nothing to introduce the objectives of the paper, despite being directly beneath the bold section heading, ``Introduction," and the remainder of the article does not deepen the connection between the present work and the cited reference.

R. The methods discussed in the current work were applied very successfully in the previous work. Seems relevant, althought the wording did seem awkward.

2. Page 1. Given the title and focus of the article, the transport equation (and mixing ratio) should be stated at the beginning of the article.   Currently, it does not appear until page 3.   Additionally, the distinction between a tracer density, which is always nonnegative, and a tracer mixing ratio, which always lies in the interval [0,1], should be emphasized.

R. If you mean the advection equation, which is what we're trying to solve, it appears in the third paragraph of the Introduction, Section 1.

3. Page 2, lines 46.  The sentence, ``Unlike in Ottino (1993), we specify the starting time explicitly instead of assuming $t_0=0$,'' seems to credit Ottino (1993) with introducing the capability to use $t_0 \ne 0$ in the flow map equations (6) and (7), but this capability has been used by every semi-Lagrangian method dating back to the 1970s.  See (Staniforth and Cote, 1991, Semi-Lagrangian integration schemes for atmospheric models --- A review.  Monthly Weather Review 119:2206--2223).

R. Ottino does _not_ use this technique. That's the point.

4. Page 3 is devoted to a derivation of the strong form of advection equation using standard techniques.  It's not clear why this derivation is necessary; such a well-known result can simply be stated, citing a suitable introductory text for readers who may want more details.

R. Completeness, maybe?

5. Page 4.  The purpose of section 4 is not clear; an introductory statement about its goal and how it is organized is necessary.  Specifically, it's not clear how equations (27)--(29) relate to this section. Those equations discuss the evolution of a tracer mixing ratio gradient, but the section is focused on the evolution of the volume of a Lagrangian fluid parcel (which is independent of a tracer mixing ratio).

R. 

6. Page 4, equation (27).  The notation for the evolution equation of a tracer gradient is confusing.  I suggest adding parenthesis to make clear that you are discussing the advection of a vector; $\frac{\partial}{\partial t}(\nabla q) = -(\nabla q)\cdot \nabla\vec{v} - \vec{v}\cdot\nabla(\nabla q).$

7. Page 4, equations (27)--(29).  These equations discuss the evolution of a tracer mixing ratio's gradient, which implies that the mixing ratio is differentiable. One cannot assume such smoothness exists; indeed, discontinuous mixing ratios are so common that standardized test cases including a discontinuous tracer have been used for decades (e.g., Zalesak, 1979, Fully multidimensional flux corrected transport algorithms for fluids, J. Comput. Phys., 31:335-362).

R. With discontinuous tracers, you start getting into shock-wave propagation, something that is quite beyond our scope here. Also, in just about any real-world situation, whether simulated or not, a discontinuous tracer will not stay that way for long because of diffusion and mixing.

8. Page 4, line 29.  The term ``tangent model'' needs a reference to add context.        For readers not familiar with that term, what is the physical significance of $H$?  I assume $H$ represents the volume of a Lagrangian fluid parcel, but this should be explicitly stated.
9. Page 4, equation (23). Velocity is a vector.
10. Page 4, line 45.  Here you seem to introduce a time dependence on the trajectory perturbation $\delta \vec{x}$ defined in line 6.  This time dependence is not included in, but affects, the Taylor series expansion of equations (18) and (19). 
11. All of page 5. It's not clear how these equations contribute to the papers' goals.
12. Page 5, line (20).  The sentence ``It's easy to show that $H^{-1} = H'$," and the following verification are presented without context. The relationship expressed by equation (32) likely refers to the relationship between the volume of a Lagrangian parcel and the Jacobian determinant of the flow map but again, this is not clear.  The discussion in Chorin and Marsden, A Mathematical Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, Chapter 1, provides a complete presentation of this relationship and its derivation.
13. Page 6, equation (40) introduces a new symbol, $Q$, defined to be the ``transport map," but the transport map is related to the previously defined symbol $\Phi$ (Section 2) by the transport theorem.  A separate symbol is not necessary.   See Chapter 1 of Chorin & Marsden for details.

R. I don't believe this is correct. While you could use $\Phi$ in the same capacity, the form of the equation would be quite different.

14. Page 7 introduces the familiar technique of solving a general system of ODEs (represented by a matrix $A$) by diagonalizing the matrix and decoupling the system into its eigenvectors. Such a general discussion requires analysis of the matrix $A$, which ultimately depends on the underlying numerical method.  For example, it's not assured that every matrix $A$ has an eigenvalue decomposition; how can you be certain that the matrices related to numerical transport considered in this work have this property?



15. Page 8, lines 21--28 claim that rearranging the ODEs of equation (49) to use left- rather than right- multiplication transforms the advection equation into the vorticity equation but this is misleading.  First, both the advection equation and the vorticity equation refer to continuous scalar transport equations; the notion of left- vs. right-matrix multiplication does not apply.  Second, this use-case is very unusual; why would someone, having derived a transport scheme, suddenly decide to change the order of operations or multiply one side of the scheme by negative one?  In either case, the scheme is changed --- some connection to the physical model is required.
16. Page 9, lines 5--32 discuss the system of ODEs that result from multiplying the discrete system (49) by -1 on the RHS, a situation that corresponds to reversing the direction of the time coordinate.  It's not clear how this is useful or relevant to the physical problem of solving the advection equation.
17. Page 11, equation 101.  You have assumed that $R$ is length-preserving in equation (99), without relating this property to transport; you now make the same assumption of the matrix $A$ without stating why you are able to do this.
18. Page 12, lines 25--27 seem to assert that the transport mapping is always a rotation.  In what space? About what axis?  An interdisciplinary audience may assume you mean physical space where transport (obviously) is not always rotational.
19. Page 12, line 28.  The assertion that discrete numerical transport schemes ``always include some diffusion," which is reiterated on page 13, lines 33-34, is false.  The well-known midpoint method (Dahlquist and Bjork, Numerical Methods, 1974, Example 8.5.9), also known as the leapfrog method (LeVeque, 2007, Sec. 10.2.2), provides a counterexample.

R. It's also unstable. It wouldn't work on real problems without quickly over-flowing, much like the finite-difference method without added diffusion. A leap-frog method is particularly problematic because it allows even- and odd-numbered grid-points to evolve more-or-less independently.

20. Page 12, equation (110) and line 34 state that the total mixing ratio is conserved.  This is false; the conserved quantity (mass) is the integral of the product of the mixing ratio and the fluid density.

R. This is obvious. Under the stated constraints, it works out to the form shown in the equation. In no place in the text do I state that the mixing ratio is conserved.
       


Reviewer #2: Report for the Manuscript "Matrix Analysis of Tracer Transport"
(International Journal on Geomathematics GEM, Manuscript no. IJGE-D-19-00003)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The manuscript aims at reviewing matrix methods for tracer transport. I, unfortunately, feel forced to recommend the rejection of the manuscript.

From my perspective I must say that the notion matrix methods in this context is new to me (although that does not mean much and is not the reason for my recommendation to reject). Since the paper claims to review these methods I would expect a profound introduction and review of the state of the arts which is accessible to a broader audience of experts, an intuitive and mathematically sound motivation, and a thorough review of the state of the arts supported by an exhaustive list of references. Unfortunately, I must say that I am missing all of these points - in particular the mathematical soundness. Example 1: equation (1) does not necessarily correspond to a discretization of (2). Example 2: The decomposition (50) is simply not justified in general. These examples are only the most obvious ones.

All in all, given the importance of the above points to judge the quality of a survey publication in general, I feel that this manuscript does not meet the standards of an interdisciplinary survey that a broad audience can refer to or use to get an overview.

__






Recipients of this email are registered users within the Editorial Manager database for this journal. We will keep your information on file to use in the process of submitting, evaluating and publishing a manuscript. For more information on how we use your personal details please see our privacy policy at https://www.springernature.com/production-privacy-policy. If you no longer wish to receive messages from this journal or you have questions regarding database management, please contact the Publication Office at the link below.

__________________________________________________
In compliance with data protection regulations, you may request that we remove your personal registration details at any time.  (Use the following URL: https://www.editorialmanager.com/ijge/login.asp?a=r) Please contact the publication office if you have any questions.
